The monopropellant hydrogen peroxide has been proposed as such a
power source in the past by two prominent research groups [ ]. Hydrogen Peroxide (H2O2) and
its mixtures with water decompose rapidly in contact with catalytic materials such as manganese
dioxide (MnO2), silver, and platinum. H2O2 was injected on a silver catalyst bed through two
proportional servo-controlled valves [2] attached to the ends of a double-acting cylinder, thus
driving the piston. Another version of the design [3] utilized an on-o solenoid valve to achieve
similar results. In both cases, the controller model is based on a simple system-based approach
without considering reaction kinetics, and with the addition of Lyapunov control stability for the
system involving the proportional valves. A H2 O2 - based free-piston hydraulic pump [4] was
also developed for pumping oil to drive actuators for exoskeletons. The system was modelled in a
semi-empirical fashion by considering a simple model, where the semi-empirical constants were
dependent on the concentration of H2 O2 , and needed to be re-determined in case of any change in
the concentration. In the current work, a hot gas generator has been constructed, which is capable
of generating a given pressure profile by modulating the pulsed flow of the monopropellant in the
combustion chamber. Due to the ease of handling, 50% H2 O2 has been utilized as a fuel, and
manganese dioxide has been utilized as the catalyst. Commercially available glow plugs heated up
the catalyst bed before injecting the diluted H2O2 through an on-o solenoid valve. The pressure
traces acquired during the process show that the system reaches a steady state during the course of

Monopropellant thrusters are widely used for the altitude and
attitude control of spaceflight objects such as satellites and launch
vehicles. Therefore, research has been conducted on various monopropellants such as H2O2, hydrazine, and hydroxylammonium nitrate (HAN) for such thrusters. Among these monopropellants,
H2O2 was used as an oxidizer component of bipropellants and as
a monopropellant since the early days of rocket development because of its storable characteristic. However, after the discovery of
high-performance hydrazine, H2O2 was retired as a liquid propellant. Nevertheless, tightened environmental regulations led to an
increase in the handling cost of hydrazine, because of which H2O2
began being reevaluated as a monopropellant in the mid-1990s

